Changelog
~~~~~~~~~

0.37.0 (August 2024)
--------------------

* Determine maximum classical register width from backend info.
* Permit numpy 2.
* Update pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.29.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.31.

0.36.0 (July 2024)
------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.30.
* Update pytket-qir version requirement to 0.12.

0.35.0 (June 2024)
------------------

* Update pytket version requirement to 1.29.
* Update pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.28.

0.34.1 (June 2024)
------------------

* Restrict classical registers to a maximum size of 32 (until pytket can
  support larger values).

0.34.0 (June 2024)
------------------

* Update pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.27.
* Update Leakage Detection to reuse circuit qubits.
* Update pytket version requirement to 1.28.
* Update pytket-qir version requirement to 0.11.
* Update offline machine specs to match real devices as at 5 June 2024.

0.33.0 (April 2024)
-------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.27.
* Update pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.24.

0.32.0 (March 2024)
-------------------

* Remove ``no_opt`` and ``allow_2q_gate_rebase`` options to
  ``process_circuits()`` and ``submit_program()``, and assume that the submitted
  circuit is exactly what is desired to be run.
* Update pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.22.

0.31.0 (March 2024)
-------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.26.
* Update pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.19.
* Add methods to enable visibility of Quantinuum H-Series 
operations calendar with and without matplotlib.
* Support TK2 as native gate.
* Update pytket version requirement to 1.26.
* Update pytket-qir version requirement to 0.9.

0.30.0 (February 2024)
----------------------

* Make pytket-qir an automatic dependency.
* Update pytket version requirement to 1.25.
* Update pytket-qir version requirement to 0.5.
* Update pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.17.

0.29.0 (January 2024)
---------------------

* Updated pytket_pecos version requirement to 0.1.13.
* Fix handling of results in local emulator with non-default classical
  registers.
* Add WASM support to local emulators.
* Add multithreading support to local emulators, via new ``multithreading``
  keyword argument passed to ``process_circuits()``.

0.28.0 (January 2024)
---------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.24.
* Python 3.12 support added, 3.9 dropped.
* pytket_pecos dependency updated to 0.1.9.

0.27.0 (January 2024)
---------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.23.
* ``QuantinuumBackend.cost()`` now raises an error if the ``syntax_checker``
  argument doesn't correspond to the device's reported syntax checker or if it
  specifies a device that isn't a syntax checker; and the method returns 0 if
  called on syntax-checker backends.
* Add partial support for local emulator backends, if installed with the
  ``pecos`` option.

0.26.0 (November 2023)
----------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.22.
* Add ``QuantinuumConfigCredentialStorage`` for caching API tokens in local pytket
  configuration file.
* Add an additonal ``RemoveRedundancies`` pass to the default passes for levels 1 and 2 to remove Rz gates before measurement.

0.25.0 (October 2023)
---------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.21.

0.24.0 (October 2023)
---------------------

* Don't include ``SimplifyInitial`` in default passes; instead make it an option
  to ``process_circuits()``.
* Fix: set default two-qubit gate when compilation config is provided without
  specifying one.

0.23.0 (September 2023)
-----------------------

* Update pytket-qir version requirement to 0.3.
* Update pytket version requirement to 1.20.

0.22.0 (September 2023)
-----------------------

* Update pytket version requirement to 1.19.

0.21.0 (September 2023)
-----------------------

* Ensure results retrieval works even with an old-format ``ResultHandle``
  (generated by a pre-0.17.0 version of pytket-quantinuum).
* Add properties ``QuantinuumBackend.default_two_qubit_gate`` and
  ``QuantinuumBackend.two_qubit_gate_set`` providing the default and supported
  two-qubit gates for a device.
* Make ``ZZPhase`` the default two-qubit gate target on all devices.
* Add ``QuantinuumBackendCompilationConfig`` dataclass, which can be passed as
  an optional argument when constructing a ``QuantinuumBackend``. Configuration
  can be inspected using ``QuantinuumBackend.get_compilation_config()`` and
  modified using the methods
  ``QuantinuumBackend.set_compilation_config_allow_implicit_swaps()`` and
  ``QuantinuumBackend.set_compilation_config_target_2qb_gate()``.
* Add optional argument ``allow_2q_gate_rebase`` argument to
  ``process_circuit()``, ``process_circuits()`` and ``submit_program()`` to
  allow the backend to rebase to rebase the circuit to a different two-qubit
  gate judged to have better fidelity before being run. The default is to not
  allow this.
* Fix handling of multiple classical registers when submitting QIR.
* Change ``ResultHandle`` format. (Old ``ResultHandle`` objects will continue to
  work after upgrading.)
* Fix: Ignore erased scratch bits when constructing ``ResultHandle``.

0.20.0 (August 2023)
--------------------

* Update pytket version requirement to 1.18.
* Add ``implicit_swaps`` option to 
  ``QuantinuumBackend.rebase_pass``, which 
  can use implicit wire swaps (represented in the circuit qubit permutation)
  to help implement some gates when chosen. Defaults to ``False``.
* Add  ``implicit_swaps`` option to 
  ``QuantinuumBackend.default_compilation_pass``, which 
  is used in the rebase step. Defaults to ``True``.

0.19.0 (August 2023)
--------------------

* Update `FullyConnected` Architecture to label Node with "q", matching
  compilation by `FlattenRelabelRegistersPass`.

0.18.0 (July 2023)
------------------

* Update pytket version requirement to 1.17.
* Add ``leakage_detection`` option to ``QuantinuumBackend.process_circuits()``
  that automatically modifies Circuits with ancillas for detecting leakage 
  errors. Also provides a new method ``prune_shots_detected_as_leaky`` for
  removing erroneous shots from ``BackendResult``.

0.17.0 (June 2023)
------------------

* Add ``Language`` enum to control language used for circuit submission, with
  values ``Language.QASM`` and ``Language.QIR``.
* Renamed ``QuantinuumBackend.submit_qasm()`` to
  ``QuantinuumBackend.submit_program()``, with a ``language`` argument.
* Add a ``language`` kwarg to ``QuantinuumBackend.process_circuits()``,
  defaulting to ``Language.QASM``. (Support for ``Language.QIR`` is
  experimental and its use is not recommended; a warning will be emitted. You
  must install the ``pytket-qir`` package separately in order to use this
  feature.)
* Use "q" instead of "node" as the name of the single qubit register in compiled
  circuits.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.16.

0.16.0 (May 2023)
-----------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.15.
* cost function now takes the same kwargs as process_circuits
* add check for the number of classical registers to the backend
* add ``get_partial_result`` method to ``QuantinuumBackend``.
* add ``Rxxyyzz`` gate support.

0.15.0 (April 2023)
-------------------

* Darkmode added to the documentation
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.13.2
* Default compilation passes updated to correctly track initial and final maps during compilation

0.14.0 (March 2023)
-------------------

* Use default ``Node`` register for flattening in default compilation pass.
* Prefer ``ZZPhase`` to ``ZZMax`` gates if available.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.13.

0.13.0 (January 2023)
---------------------

* Drop support for Python 3.8; add support for 3.11.
* The backend now works in threads other than the main.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.11.

0.12.0 (December 2022)
----------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.10.
* Default compilation pass update to flatten registers

0.11.0 (November 2022)
----------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.9.
* Add optional ``no_opt`` argument to ``process_circuits()`` and
  ``submit_qasm()``, requesting no optimization.
* Change default optimization level in
  ``QuantinuumBackend.default_compilation_pass()`` to 2.
* ``default_compilation_pass`` now flattens qubit registers when compiling Circuits.

0.10.0 (November 2022)
----------------------

* Break up `pytket` internal scratch registers if their widths exceed limit.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.8.

0.9.0 (October 2022)
--------------------

* Add `session` parameter to `QuantinuumAPI`. Creates a new session
  if `None` is provided.
* Add facility to specify default ``options`` paramater to
  ``process_circuits()`` and ``submit_qasm()`` when constructing backend, and
  include this information in ``backend_info``.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.7.

0.8.0 (September 2022)
----------------------

* Add ``options`` parameter to ``process_circuits()`` and ``submit_qasm()``.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.6.

0.7.0 (August 2022)
-------------------

* Add new `QuantinuumAPIOffline` for allowing usage of the backend without API calls.
* New `api_handler` parameter for `QuantinuumBackend`, allowing to choose
  online or offline options. Default value is the standard online api.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.5.

0.6.0 (July 2022)
-----------------

* Changed batching interface: `process_circuits` no longer batches, use
  `start_batching` and `add_to_batch` methods to explicitly start and append to
  batches.
* New `submit_qasm` backend method to enable direct submission of a QASM program.

0.5.0 (July 2022)
-----------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.4.
* Add support for multi-factor authentication and microsoft federated login.

0.4.0 (June 2022)
-----------------

* Add wasm support
* Add support for `OpType.CopyBits` and `OpType.ClassicalExpBox` in `QuantinuumBackend`
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.3.
* Add optional argument `group` to `QuantinuumBackend`

0.3.1 (May 2022)
----------------

* Updated to pyjwt 2.4. This fixes a potential security vulnerability
  (CVE-2022-29217).

0.3.0 (May 2022)
----------------

* ``QuantinuumBackend.cost_estimate`` deprecated, new ``QuantinuumBackend.cost``
  method now uses the syntax checker devices to directly return the cost.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.2.

0.2.0 (April 2022)
------------------

* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.1.

0.1.2 (April 2022)
------------------

* Fix batch handling in ``process_circuits()``.

0.1.1 (March 2022)
------------------

* Update device names.


0.1.0 (March 2022)
------------------

* Module renamed from "pytket.extensions.honeywell" to
  "pytket.extensions.quantinumm", with corresponding name changes throughout.
* Simplify authentication: use ``QuantinuumBackend.login()`` to log in once per session.
* Updated pytket version requirement to 1.0.

Old changelog for "pytket-honeywell":

0.21.0 (February 2022)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.19.
* Drop support for Python 3.7; add support for 3.10.

0.20.0 (January 2022)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Added optional ``group`` field to circuit submission.

0.19.0 (January 2022)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.18.

0.18.0 (November 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.17.

0.17.0 (October 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.16.
* Renamed ``HoneywellBackend.available_devices`` to ``_available_devices`` so as
  not to conflict with abstract ``Backend`` method.

0.16.0 (September 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.15.

0.15.0 (September 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.14.

0.14.0 (August 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Support new Honeywell simulator options in :py:class:`HoneywellBackend`:
  "simulator" for simulator type, and "noisy_simulation" to toggle simulations
  with and without error models.
* Device name no longer optional on :py:class:`HoneywellBackend` construction.

0.13.0 (July 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.13.

0.12.0 (June 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.12.

0.11.0 (May 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Updated pytket version requirement to 0.11.

0.10.0 (May 2021)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Contextual optimisation added to default compilation passes (except at optimisation level 0).
